Question 5.5.1. Question 1. Exam Style Questions.
The subscription fee for an online project management software by AB-Tech is
\$40 per month. If the customer buys for a whole year in
advance. a discount of \$130 is applied. This can be modelled by:
P(n) equals 40n - 130.\ n greater than or equal to 12
where n is the number of months. The subscription price for a
different tool by YZ-Tech is \$35 per month (annual purchase only. no
discount). The total subscription cost of YZ-Tech is less than AB-Tech when
n > k. This question is worth 7 marks.
Find the total cost of buying a subscription for 2 years. [2 marks]
2 years equals 24 months. Substitute n equals 24 into P(n).
P(24) equals 40(24) - 130 equals 960 - 130 equals 830
Total cost equals \$830
Find P inverse(1790). [2 marks]
Set P(n) equals 1790 and solve for n.
40n - 130 equals 1790
40n equals 1920
n equals 48
P inverse(1790) equals 48 months
Find the minimum value of k. [3 marks]
YZ-Tech cost: Q(n) equals 35n. We need 35n < 40n - 130.
35n < 40n - 130
negative 5n < negative 130
Dividing by negative 5 flips the inequality!
n > 26
Minimum value of k equals 26
IB exam tip: Inequality flips when you divide by a negative.
This is one of the most common errors in IB exams!